Linus: It's finally here!
We have all the pieces we need to put together our iMac pro.
We've got a new iMac Pro 5k display,
We've got a new logic board, complete with CPU and RAM (that are by the way socketed and not soldered on so)
Yeah, we covered that in part two and we have the one and only Louis Rossmann!
from Rossmann group
Louis: Time to learn how to put together an iMac and as I say
You should never learn on your own stuff always learn on somebody else's wait no you're supposed to learn on your own
Is that how this goes?
Linus: Who like me has never actually assembled and iMac Pro.
So let's have some fun today, shall we?
Sponsored of course by Mr. Rossmann's favorite tool company, iFixit!
Louis: Their screwdrivers have a very nice personality
iFixit is your one-stop shop for repair tools and guides for pretty much everything under the sun!
You can check out the link to their Pro Tech tool kit in the video description
So Anthony's laid everything out for us, pretty much.
We've got our Fan component of the thermal solution.
We've got all the picks and adhesive strips and everything that we should need
We've got their little prop up thing for the doodad here that goes in there
And then of course, is this your first time seeing an iMac Pro logic board in person?
Louis: This is my first time.
Linus: So why don't you kind of walk us through some of the things that are more and/or less obvious?
I mean I actually have one right off the bat here
Louis: Somebody's getting fired because the RAM is not soldered to the board
Linus: for some reason apple's gone with this weirdo
Configuration with five DRAM chips per side. So normally you would have four or eight and the the fifth one is for ECC
That's error checking and that's a feature of the Xeon W processor that's in there
But why wouldn't they just put all of them on the one side?
Why would they do a dual sided DIMM for this?
Louis: Maybe to get more on a single DIMM?
Linus: These are just eight gig DIMMs
Louis: Maybe they planned on it
But then that person got fired because may using too much memory would result in a not not efficient power usage. Wait
No, that was the excuse they used in the resin.
Linus: I mean a lot of people have asked like why they might have gone with
socketed memory rather than soldering the memory on because we all know that apples sort of MO here is
Making as few components on the board
Upgradable by the end user as possible
Louis: and the CPU is socketed, too
That's another person that's gonna get fired.
Linus: So I figured it out
Someone at Apple was just like, you know
What if we want to deliver enough configurations without spending a bunch of money for the sole purpose of making things?
less upgradable for the user
Sockets make a lot of sense
More than idea Apple
Louis: And if the processor fails you don't have to buy a new board and what's the cost of that board?
Linus: except you do!
You do know it Apple only sells the logic board as a complete unit
Louis: What?
Linus: with the CPU and the RAM already in it?
Louis: What if you only have a bad CPU?
Linus: because even though their socketed they still treat it like a single unit!
Louis: So what happens if you have a bad RAM stick?
Okay that one I don't know
But I know that when we had to buy the new logic board
We had to send back our CPU and RAM if we wanted to qualify for replacement
Which there's still a chance?
I heard from our contact who got us this so there's still a chance we can get replacement pricing on it
Louis: So you have to send back everything and if you don't send back everything you don't get replacement pricing
But you get charged twice the actual price of it
Which is ready four times the price that it should cost at any other computer. Yes. Well
Go apple
So those are standard SSDs, you could buy a new egg, right
Linus: I mean in their defense their SSDs do perform pretty well, so I'll give them that but a lot of people asked us
Why were you guys opening up an IMac pro in the first place? It's not meant to be opened
The reason we were opening it was because we wanted to shed some light on the cooling
solution that Apple is using for up to an 18 core processor and a Vegas 64 GPU just
looking at it tells us everything we need to know about how much this sucker is gonna thermal throttle and in order for us to
take our thermal throttling results and
Sanity check them
This is why we were opening it
because we're a review channel and we know that opening up the product is not something that everyone's gonna do
But this is a pro product in a professional environment where you you might actually have
technicians on staff
To help people through both software and hardware issues. It is my expectation
that you would be able to use their service a
Professional machine and you would be able to get the parts that you need. Is that an unreasonable thing?
Louis: I think it's very unreasonable that you expect that
You should be able to clean the dust out of it three years from now and it's filled with junk and runs 30 Celsius hotter
When they say that you're not supposed to open it. It's not designed to be opened
I can understand that to an extent, but wouldn't you want to open it so that you can clean it three years from now
There's so many of these old machines they wind up dying when the graphics chip start running 20 and 30 Celsius hotter and this design
If you blow compress there and there it's just going to wind up blowing the dust around the machine.
Linus: Well yeah Oh here here
What we can do is we can kind of we can kind of line this up and this is something that's very
Difficult to do if you don't actually open it up and have a look at it
So if you were to blow dust or if you were to blow air through through this very thoughtfully designed baffle here
So that you don't get as much noise from the fan I guess
Which is neat
Louis: if you open any of these that are more than three years old
I would be surprised that the fan even spins just based on how much dust they're in here after a few years
So you would want to open it just to be able to blow it out and you can't do that in this machine
So it makes sense that somebody would want to open this
and if not now than a few years from now if they want it
To last at least and Apple wants it to last right?
Linus: Is there anything about this main board that should, that makes it special it does have a GPU built right into it
Which is either a feature or a drawback depending on how you look at it?
Louis: That's a good board It has to some extent it has four Thunderbolt ports four USB ports Ethernet
Linus: 10 Gig LAN
Louis: It does use the same USB C muxing that the touch bars did and I remember with the touch bars when I tried to use
A third-party dongle rather than the original Apple dongle. It didn't work and the original Apple dongle was like 80 bucks
Lunis: I mean this appliance your chip said to buy a card with this on it is about a hundred bucks
I can understand how if it comes with a graphics card and it's specifically
Custom-designed for this machine like I could see how this board would cost
Yeah, like I would say this is a solid 800 $900 board
Okay, cool
But not $4,000 what that's how much the non replacement pricing is
If you break the the warranty void if removed seals on it and when we priced out the iMac Pro
We actually found that compared to a an apples-to-apples
PC with is neon W like trying to get feature and performance parity. It was actually pretty darn similar
So it's only when you want to try to get a replacement part and you don't have the untouched by
Non-authorized technicians like yourself pricing that you really get owned rammed. Yeah
I didn't think I'd bring this guy on and he'd be one toning my language down the entire machine
It's not
Necessarily that much of a ripoff considering the form factor that you get in it and when you do actually price it with a display
That's for a PC. That would be equal. It actually isn't the terrible deal spec wise
It's just if you ever have anything go wrong with it ever then you're really screwed
I do think that Apple could do more to design things
Not to fail and when you look at this cooling solution the inability to clean out the dust
we look at the 500 watt power supply like this to me is common sense stuff when I
Initially set out to build a computer. There's a whole freaking a lot to it these days
It's like putting together Lego you got your form factor
Which Apple does a great job of you got your acoustics and you got your thermals that's step one of building a computer
Make sure that it's not going to overheat and it's not going to be super loud
Oh and don't use a crappy power supply so that it doesn't blow up in two years
I'm just surprised by the heatsink because I know that in many of their machines they focus on it being quiet
Which is a good thing
They wanted that machine to not make noise. But if you want it to not make noise you would want a larger heatsink
Not a smaller one and what they've done with a lot of the newer machines. They took the
2013/14 design which is actually a really nice design except the fan just doesn't turn on for another 20 C. Okay
So should we get started then they get to figure out that I don't know how it goes together
yeah, I know now now neither of us looks like
An expert. Yeah, I know. So I've done I've done an iMac
5k but I've never done an iMac Pro like in terms of disassembly and reassembly. Have you done an iMac? 5k? No. Oh, really?
It's time I reassembled on iMac was 2012 or 13th
Most of what we do is liquid damage repairs, but you got to be pretty special to spill water on here
Yeah, like water typically goes down not beside this. You'd have to be drinking water over a bare board sitting on a table and
It into your iMac
Or someone has to say something really funny
You have one thing that sucks with this form factor
At least for the older ones is that if you want to replace the hard drive
You have to remove the screen to get to the drive and the screen cable is short
So when people take the screen out, they don't realize that they have to hold the screen on their chest. They don't do that
They just take the screen out like this. They wind up ripping the screen connector right off the board
Okay, so do we want to put this? No, you know, I mean, no just the opposite should be. Okay, right?
Well, hold on a second, cuz we've got we've got brackets in here called like Wi-Fi and stuff
So I want to make sure that we're that's this has Ethernet though, right? That's one thing that I have to say
I love about Apple they're wireless
it's just
They're the only ones that I'm aware of that do a 3x3 by in
In a notebook because everyone else is using the mini pcie
Standard that is just not physically large enough to do a three by so this looks like some kind of sense 4G power supply
I guess okay, so hold on. We've probably got two got to put this put this lead in. Oh, okay
That one comes around as well. Hmm, okay
This guy's blocking you hold on hold on
Oh that's lifting up some kind of cover that probably serves some kind of purpose here. Hold on. Okay, it covers coils
Yeah covers things that you shouldn't touch
I guess this if I can kind of guide you in here stay up cables you really go
Ham like it's funny cuz I get a lot of flack for just kind of like going for it with stuff
Oh, yeah, but as far as we know this board works, so please do be very careful good
No pressure
Why did I fly in from here to do this for me? So I could learn there we go
Now we're now we're getting in there. Huh? There we go. Not a Bing. Okay. All right, so it's like being a dentist
that's like say
Yes, say yeah
Yeah, okay do we want to screw it in first
Maybe I know we wanted to see if it works before you screw it in
It's bad luck to screw it in before you see if it works
So my thing is I don't close the panel first, but I I'm willing to screw in a board
I'll put in at least a couple screws cuz I don't like I don't like motherboard sliding around on standoffs
Oh, yeah, can I put in two screws? Okay, okay
Stressing out here
one thing about working on a PC like this that legitimately
Should require certification and legitimately is dangerous for the average person is the fact that it has exposed
Things on the capacitors on their power supplies. No, there's no no. No, there's nothing that goes on here. It's just like this
That is extremely dangerous
You could die. This this is nothing. This is no tongue-in-cheek. Haha, Apple or anything like that. Just I've never actually seen
Another finished goods product like this with an exposed power supply like that
And as far as I can tell the only reason they've done it is so that they can use the cooler unit here
To cool the power supply
Without having its own fan which would because of the thin form factor be quite small and therefore
whining
I'm surprised they didn't put at least some sort of cage over it but happened to be grounded so that if the somebody was going
Into let's say clean their fan. They don't do that
This is one of those things where I like to joke in my videos
But I would not want to touch that and there is a good chance of somebody opening this and actually hurting themselves
Even if it's unplugged because those two capacitors will stay charged for a long time after a long time sometimes months or even years
You don't mess around with that stuff now actually on the subject of these things being exposed
a lot of people have asked us what exactly
happened because the way that we showed our iMac pro failure was in the form of like a
Reenactment because obviously the camera wasn't rolling while we well we dropped the display
Yeah, those sparks those master after-effects drawn sparks. Very real
I know we deceived everyone believed in you up. So what actually happened was
when Anthony was removing the display he bridged something in here and it caused a spark which
Startled him and caused him to drop the display. That was what actually happened. And because the spark was on the motherboard
that's why from the very
Beginning we have deceived. No one we knew we definitely had a broken display, but we knew we also
Possibly had a dead motherboard and therefore by extension a dead power supply. Actually the spark was off the power supply wasn't it?
So, you know
what's funny a
shield would have prevented all of this a shield would prevent about how interesting so sorry the spark on the power supply so
You know when you short out a power supply you can kind of kill almost anything downstream and because on this particular machine the power
For everything runs through the motherboard. It was probably gonna burn something on the motherboard before it carried through to something else
So that was where our conclusion came from we knew we definitely had a dead screen because it was cracked
We knew that we potentially had a dead power supply and a dead motherboard
but that our other components probably worked with that said I've seen a lot of
Shorts occur in my day that have not resulted in dead hardware or I've seen them partially fail
Like oh well now that USB port doesn't work anymore
Yeah, if you send 12 volts to the five volt rail, your machine's dead if you send 12 volts to ground
You just saw a big spark, but it's nothing that's gonna actually kill it Wow, you know those viewers are right. This is really complicated
Because I mean the whole thing like oh, these are it's like a supercar you saw those comments, right?
It's not designed to be you know
Taken apart and put together and I'm kind of like well then how does Apple?
You know take it apart and put it together because they can they just wouldn't we're good
So here's another thing that would definitely require training
the screws for the power supply and for just generally mounting the motherboard are
Threaded the same as far as I can tell, but they should not be confused
Because the power supply ones have these washers on them and they are actually designed we were talking about this off-camera
How does the power supply connect to the motherboard? It's actually through screw screw connections here
so these ones with the little
kind of
mark
next to them
That looks like it's a little oval shaped mark those ones use the silver screws and then everything else uses the black ones
That is a bit of a trick and you would need to be very careful with something like that. Oh
Not that one, please do
that moment when you bring in like a celebrity repair technician
And it turns out maybe you should have gotten a real repair technician, you know, yeah in all seriousness though
This is not very difficult as it just takes about five minutes
should an
Apple Authorized service provider like is there any
justifiable reason why they shouldn't be able to just stock replacement parts for an operation like this and be able to
Turn a board swap around for a customer in a day
the reason that they don't want them to have parts in stock is because they're afraid of them ending up on the open market or
On eBay or being result like that data recovery tool that I had bought for the new touch bar MacBooks
I got it from some likely authorized service center that was selling all of them on the side the downside of it
Is that if the parts are not stocked the customer has to wait one to three weeks to get it in if you tell somebody
It's going to take longer than 2 to 5 days. They just walk out of the store. This is an entirely different story
Imagine for a second that I'm not some youtuber also a celebrity tech
You know imagine that I bought this $5,000 machine so that I could run my you know home graphic design business
Imagine that someone told me this is gonna cost more to repair
Than I initially spent on it. How does that make any sense?
The thing that made me most furious was the people
Acting like that argument made any sense that a machine could be a total write-off
When not every component of it was dead and no broadcast
Facility is going to allow that any sort of recording studio any sort of video or news editing room
They expect that there be virtually no downtime
They're gonna have a machine to swap in a place and they expect to be able to repair this because they're using it for real
Work not to mention for a reasonable price
I expect when I buy a replacement piece of something whether it's a car or a vacuum cleaner that if I were to buy
every piece of it and
Assemble it myself
it should cost a little bit more, but I don't expect that if I were to buy all the pieces as
Replacement parts that the machine would cost literally double even if I'm putting it together myself, that doesn't make any sense
anyone making the argument that Apple can't sell it to me for
For cheaper because they've got to make money their business is clearly not doing the math because if Apple couldn't afford to sell me this
Board for around $1,000 then they couldn't afford to build this computer. I think I do stone this one
So the the Wi-Fi thing is also a little bit tricky
You've got to slide it into four little notches on these shields right here SD card area thing
The card reader is over here somewhere. So it's over here somewhere. Oh, it's to hold down that new deaden
okay, let's not turn this into a competition of which of us has done worse because that's not gonna be that's not
We were talking about credibility earlier, you know, that's not gonna help either
Well, the thing is sometimes I'll have I'll read out the letter that somebody sent in with their machine. So they'll know
Ok, he's working on mine
And then when I'm streaming it, they'll see like me saying okay, this is just for Thunderbolt
but screw this
Let us take the saddle and go wink wink wink, and then he'll get a call later saying, excuse me
Was that my machine that he just ripped the Thunderbolt USB and Wi-Fi circuitry off and then I'll have to explain to him
No, he's joking
He's gonna put that back when you get and then I'll like walk over to me and say did you stream?
Knocking all that stuff over
You watch these videos before you sent it to you you must have been expected like, you know what you're getting
It's not like it's false advertising
So this is like me and my wife like I'll make some sort of like really offensive off-color joke, and I'm just like, hon
I mean we were dating for
Six or seven years before we got married. You knew what you knew. Yes
Video when people watch the live streams of their stuff getting fixed I can only imagine how stressful that is because of the show that
I put on for what you're saying everything you see on TV is not you know an accurate reflection of real life
You put on a show. No way. I
Think the real takeaway here is that if we can handle this apples store probably could have handled. All right
Let's see if we get fan spin. It may not actually do that now
there's a lot of there's a lot of stuff where it into the display not just
Fans mail we did we're done
Yeah, so I can go
Put the panel back on that's the whole point fans fin. That's what was broken fan spins
So this is the one actually like special thing that you need and it's a part that I fix
It sells if you were to take apart and put back together and I'm at 400. Other than that
You just need like a screwdriver a couple of Torx bits
Nothing, nothing really special like you'd be surprised how many repairs you only really need a pretty basic
Toolkit for this is the hardest part of this repair actually is finding the proper adhesive and this goes back
Almost ten years with this stuff is that if you can open it up you can it's it's putting it back together. That's difficult
Yeah, because if you tried it if you just go to Home Depot and try to find adhesive that fits
It's just gonna fall right out. Oh they sent to just take it. They knew who they were. I fix
It does sell really good adhesive toolkits for these machines
I'll say well no
I was saying they sent two they clearly knew who they were dealing with all yeah expected me to screw it up once
We brought up the guide for putting on the strip's you really don't want to screw this up because they're one-time use
Oh, holy crap. They've got like eight steps for each
Strip, they really they really walk you through the steps there. I think I can handle this
I ended up picking the Dutch side
it should be noted that there's not actually that much pressure on you because
We are gonna take it apart again for sure to do our iMac pro repair guide which is what we were trying to do in
The first place I'm offended of being in a video with foul language
It's so frustrating to me that Apple tries to create this like, you know
Mystique around how difficult these machines are to repair. And the really frustrating thing is, that it works!
We had these comments from people who think that it's more than printed circuit boards, capacitors, wiring and stickers
I think a lot of people have bought into the idea that this is kind of a utopia and in some ways it is
You know did the software is easier to use it didn't crash as much when Vista was out. It looks nice
Did you put this on?
maybe
Linus: Clearly, I don't watch your videos.
Louis: There are at least 1000 MacBook Airs out there with the adhesive applied like that
Yeah, they think they think it's the Utopia so that if some anything goes wrong
It has to be their fault or it has to be your fault. It couldn't be that they did something wrong
So so people wind up denying their own experience when they have a problem like I remember seeing this one thread in 2011 world
So many people were saying you're wrong. This machine doesn't run too hot. You must have been doing something wrong
You must have got dust in it. You got a defense. You must have been running it too hard
Yeah, and it Roenick ly on their own page it says, you know
70% faster with video editing than last year's model and all you were trying to do is that it's some
Video. Oh, I screwed it up. Oh, I really missed. That's what the finger knows if you hold on hold on
Hold on I got I got this. I got this. I don't want it fold it
You definitely don't want two layers of it cut if it's a little bit. Ah
Shoot. No, that's really bad
Actually, I gave you so much for your application of the first couple then I screwed up the last one. Dang it
That's Karma for you. Do you want to do the ribbons and I'll hold the screen? Yeah, let's move it closer to the edge
Yes, that's actually do that now to pretend that we didn't forget to plug the microphone
Some reason they use that connector for the webcam on the MacBook
So I thought that that was a webcam Zapata's screen by the way for those watching at home
This is the smarter way to handle these recessed screws on the queer
You just put them in the rubber grommet first then screw them in
It was all going very smoothly yes, nothing is broken you
that we know it's best if you have somebody hold the screen while you're plugging things in so that you don't drop the screen or
There's always the chest or you or use your chest because it's very easy to drop this. That's the manly way
You have to have bigger packs than me for it to really work very well. I have more men moved it than pecs myself
It's good to use your nails rather than on the edge of the connector over here
So you're gonna see it's kind of shaped like an L and don't be afraid to just push it in on the edges
Don't try to push the whole thing in at once. That's very difficult
And then you can plug in the screen
Connect it without breaking it and we'll try not to drop anything in the power supply this time famous last words
Moment of truth. Come on. Come on over here Brandon. I want people to know we're not faking anything. There's no reenactments
So we got fan spin. How do we get Apple logo?
Something you do that was there very antique Leblon holding the screen with my good hand
Crash should we go like the top gun the top gun style high-five. Do you know the the high-five they do in Top Gun?
Okay, you got it. You got to go over here. Just so I'm gonna end with the screen being drop, okay
Yeah
So, I think that's pretty much it
massive thank you to
Absolutely everyone who was involved in this?
Thank you to Anthony for breaking our iMac Pro because otherwise we never would have really started this conversation
About right to repair and apples policies here
we would have had no way of knowing that it was going to be so difficult to repair a
professional-grade machine thanks to our community who really stepped up and helped us out getting this thing fixed for a
Reasonable price. Well, we can throw our total bill of materials up here compared to what Apple would have charged us
We can do that, right?
Huge thanks to Luis rossmann for showing up and helping
Be reassembled
Was a lot of fun. Thanks to iFixit
of course for providing us with the adhesive strips and the tools we need as well as their
awesome online guides for disassembly and reassembly of your electronics and of course for sponsoring this third installment of this video series and
Thank you to you guys for watching guys. If you dislike this video, you can hit that button, but if you liked it hit
Hit like get subscribed or maybe consider checking out where to buy the stuff we featured
At the link in the video description also down
There is our merch store which has cool shirts just like this one and our community forum, which you should definitely join
Can you buy screens and boards to Apple products on your merch store?
No, you cannot extra for the people who stayed till the end. Yes. We are aware of the serialization
Process for Apple main boards don't ask any questions
But this does work with FaceTime and iMessage and all that stuff
Don't worry about it, but you might run into issues if you were to actually try to just buy a random board on eBay